DOCS-11425-aggregators-studio-configuration-kt (#1561)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: aggregators/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/aggregators-studio-configuration.adoc

= Use Studio to Configure Aggregators Module 1.0 - Mule 4

Anypoint Studio (Studio) editors help you design and update your Mule applications, properties, and configuration files.

To add and configure a module in Studio:

. <<create-mule-project,Create a Mule project>>.
. <<add-connector-to-project,Add the module to your Mule project>>.
. <<configure-source,Configure a source for the module's flow>>.

> . <<add-connector-operation,Add an Aggregator Scope to the flow>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<add-connector-operation,Add an aggregator scope to the flow>>.
```

> . <<configure-os-aggregator,Configure an Object Store for an Aggregator>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<configure-os-aggregator,Configure an object store for an aggregator>>.
```

When you run the connector, you can view the app log to check for problems in real time, as described in <<view-app-log,View the App Log>>.

> If you are new to configuring connectors in Studio, see xref:connectors::introduction/intro-config-use-studio.adoc[Use Studio to Configure a Connector]. If, after reading this topic, you need additional information about the connector fields, see the <link to the connector Reference Guide [<connector name> Reference].

Reviewer: links TBD?

[[create-mule-project]]
== Create a Mule Project

In Studio, create a new Mule project in which to add and configure the connector:

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
. Enter a name for your Mule project and click *Finish*.

[[add-connector-to-project]]
== Add the Module to Your Mule Project

Add Aggregators Module to your Mule project to automatically populate the XML code with the module's namespace and schema location and to add the required dependencies to the project's `pom.xml` file:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In the *Add Dependencies to Project* window, type `aggregators module` in the search field.
. Click *Aggregators Module* in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

Adding a module to a Mule project in Studio does not make that module available to other projects in your Studio workspace.

[[configure-source]]
== Configure a Source

A source initiates a flow when a specified condition is met.
You can configure one of these sources to use with Aggregators Module:

> * *HTTP > Listener*

Reviewer: The name includes >?

+
Initiates a flow each time it receives a request on the configured host and port.
* *Aggregator listener*
+

> Initiates a sub-flow by listening to elements triggered by a referenced aggregator scope. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Initiates a subflow by listening to elements triggered by a referenced aggregator scope. +
```

> After the aggregator scope referenced by the listener completes an aggregation, the *Aggregator listener* triggers the sub-flow with a list of all the aggregated elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the aggregator scope referenced by the listener completes an aggregation, *Aggregator listener* triggers the subflow with a list of all the aggregated elements.
```
Are you sure about using bold here? We're essentially saying that the label triggers the subflow....

For example, to configure an Aggregator listener, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Aggregators > Aggregator listener*.
. Drag *Aggregator listener* to the Studio canvas.
. On the *Aggregator listener* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.

> . Set *Aggregator name* to the name of the aggregator scope to listen to. +
> The listener executes after the aggregator scope releases its elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set *Aggregator name* to the name of the aggregator scope to listen to. +
+
The listener executes after the aggregator scope releases its elements.
```

> . Select *Include timed out groups* to indicate whether the listener should be triggered when a group is released due to a timeout. +
> This configuration option also works for non-group aggregators, such as the *Time based aggregator* and *Size based aggregator* scopes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Include timed out groups* to indicate whether the listener should be triggered when a group is released due to a timeout. +
+
This configuration option also works for nongroup aggregators, such as the *Time based aggregator* and *Size based aggregator* scopes.
```

[[add-connector-operation]]
== Add an Aggregator Scope to the Flow

When you add a module scope to your flow, you are specifying an action for that module to perform.

To add a scope for Aggregators Module, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *Aggregators* and then select the desired scope:
+

> * *Group based aggregator* +
> Enables you to aggregate elements into groups by group ID.
> * *Size based aggregator* +
> Enables you to aggregate elements until a predefined size number of elements completes the aggregation.
> * *Time based aggregator* +
> Enables you to aggregate elements within a predefined time limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Group based aggregator*: Enables you to aggregate elements into groups by group ID.
* *Size based aggregator*: Enables you to aggregate elements until a predefined number of elements completes the aggregation.
* *Time based aggregator*: Enables you to aggregate elements within a predefined time limit.
```
OR
```suggestion
* *Group based aggregator* +
+
Enables you to aggregate elements into groups by group ID.
* *Size based aggregator* +
+
Enables you to aggregate elements until a predefined size number of elements completes the aggregation.
* *Time based aggregator* +
+
Enables you to aggregate elements within a predefined time limit.
```

+

> . Drag the scope onto the Studio canvas to the right of the source.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Drag the scope onto the Studio canvas to the right of the source:
```

== Configure an Object Store for an Aggregator

For any aggregator scope, you can configure an object store either by referencing a global object store or creating a private one.

=== Configure a Global Object Store

To configure a global object store in Studio, follow these steps:

. Select the aggregator scope from the flow.
. On the aggregator scope configuration screen, click *Advanced*.
. Click the green plus sign (+) to create a global object store configuration.
. In the *Global Object store configuration* screen, set *Name* to `aGlobalObjectStore`.
. Complete the required configuration attributes and click *OK*.

The following screenshot shows the *Advanced* tab of *Group based aggregator* scope with an object store configuration:

image::aggregators-os-global.png[The Object Store(*) field has the aGlobalObjectStore configuration selected]

In the *Configuration XML* view, the `objectStore` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:group-based-aggregator name="globalOSAggregator"
                                   maxSize="10"
                                   objectStore="aGlobalObjectStore">

----

=== Configure a Private Object Store

> To configure a private object store in Studio, you need to manually update the XML code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a private object store in Studio, manually update the XML code:
```

. Select the aggregator scope from the flow.
. Click *Configuration XML* in your Studio canvas.
. Add the XML private object store `<os:private-object-store>` inside the `<aggregators:object-store>` section, for example:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<aggregators:size-based-aggregator  name="privateOSAggregator" maxSize="10">
    ...
    <aggregators:object-store>
        <os:private-object-store alias="privateObjectStore" persistent="false"/>
    </aggregators:object-store>
</aggregators:group-based-aggregator>
----

[[view-app-log]]
== View the App Log

> To check for problems, you can view the app log as follows:

Reviewer: Although checking for problems is what they are doing, I wonder if we should avoid implying that problems will undoubtedly occur or are likely?
How about...:
```suggestion
To monitor app performance, view the app log as follows:
```

Reviewer: If this ^ is part of the template, let's discuss at a team meeting.

> * If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, the app log output is visible in the Anypoint Studio console window.
> * If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, the app log output is visible in your OS console.

Reviewer: It also occurs to me that we can make these less passive:
```suggestion
* If you’re running the app from Anypoint Platform, view app log output in the Anypoint Studio console window.
* If you’re running the app using Mule from the command line, view app log output in your OS console.
```

Reviewer: Ditto re. template ^

Reviewer: The previous rewordings then are parallel to the following sentence: you can also view
